{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;\red251\green0\blue7;\red25\green60\blue255;
\red202\green202\blue202;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;\cssrgb\c12594\c35385\c100000;
\cssrgb\c83229\c83229\c83125;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22240\viewh23100\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 8/4/20\
AlgoExpert.io Systems Design Fundamentals Notes\
3- Client- Server Model\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.algoexpert.io/systems/fundamentals"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 https://www.algoexpert.io/systems/fundamentals}}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 1) \cf3 Client
\f0\b0 \cf0 \
- \cf4 machine that sends or requests data from a server\cf0 \
- Note* a single machine or a piece of software can be both a client and a server at the same time.\
  For instance, a single machine could act as a server for end users and as a client for a database\
- Ex. Chrome browser is a client\
\

\f2\b 2) \cf3 Server
\f0\b0 \cf0 \
- machine that provides data for a client, usually by listening for incoming \ul network calls
\f2\b \ulnone \
\
3) \cf3 DNS Query
\f0\b0  \cf0 (Domain Name System- the phonebook of the internet)
\f2\b \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 - special request by client to some entity? that asks for the IP address of ex. google.com
\f2\b \
\
4) \cf3 IP address\cf0  (Internet Protocol)\

\f0\b0 - unique identifier for a machine connected to the internet that some entity has granted to a machine\
- analogous to a mailbox address for an apartment building (ex. 404 5th Avenue)
\f2\b \
\
5) \cf3 Port\cf0 \

\f0\b0 - an integer between 0 and ~65k
\f2\b \
-
\f0\b0  analogous to apartment numbers (ex. 10D in an apartment building)\
Examples of ports:
\f2\b \

\f0\b0 	80	= HTTP\
	443	= HTTPS\
	53 	= DNS lookup\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 \
6) What happens when you type in Algoexpert.io in the chrome browser and hit enter?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 	- 1. Client (ex. chrome browser) makes a \ul DNS query\ulnone  to find out what the \ul IP address\ulnone  is of algoexpert.io is\
	- 2. Now that Client knows where algoexpert.io is because client has the IP address, it sends an\
	      \ul HTTP request\ulnone  to that IP address. That request is also going to contain the address of the client browser\
	- 3. A server usually listens to requests on specific \ul ports.\ulnone  Client has to specify what port you want to communicate\
	     on. The server then sends a \ul response\ulnone  back to the client. The response contains all the html/css/js needed to \
             Render the page. \
	- 4. Client browser renders the page with the data from the response
\f2\b \
\
\
Questions\

\f0\b0 - What entity/Who does the client make the DNS query request to?\
	- In the case of algoexpert.io, the cloud provider (Google Cloud Platform) is the entity\
- What\'92s the purpose of having different ports?\
\
\
	\
\
\
\
\
\
}